Docs: Add an option api doc (#1181)
ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago: docs/options api.md

need to create:
- A new option class with a docstring detailing what the option will do to your user.
- A `display_name` to be displayed on the webhost.
- A new entry in the `option_definitions` dict for your World.
By style and convention, the internal names should be snake_case. If the option supports having multiple sub_options
such as Choice options, these can be defined with `option_my_sub_option`, where the preceding `option_` is required and
stripped for users, so will show as `my_sub_option` in yaml files and if `auto_display_name` is True `My Sub Option`
on the webhost. All options support `random` as a generic option. `random` chooses from any of the available
values for that option, and is reserved by AP. You can set this as your default value but you cannot define your own
new `option_random`.

### Option Creation
As an example, suppose we want an option that lets the user start their game with a sword in their inventory. Let's
create our option class (with a docstring), give it a `display_name`, and add it to a dictionary that keeps track of our
options:

> ```python

Reviewer: including the filename as comment helps the user to figure out what the file is supposed to be called (per our convention)
```suggestion
```python
# Options.py
```

class StartingSword(Toggle):
    """Adds a sword to your starting inventory."""
    display_name = "Start With Sword"

> options = {

Reviewer: Per our convention, we prefix it with the world name. this is not super necessary, but all worlds do that currently.
```suggestion
example_options = {
```

    "starting_sword": StartingSword
}
```

This will create a `Toggle` option, internally called `starting_sword`. To then submit this to the multiworld, we add it
to our world's `__init__.py`:

```python

> from worlds.AutoWorld import World
> from .options import options
> class ExampleWorld(World):
>     option_definitions = options

Reviewer: Until we change major worlds to be in line with pep8 for module names, upper case Options is still our convention. Also use pep8 in code snippets (the newlines).
```suggestion
# __init__.py
from worlds.AutoWorld import World
from .Options import example_options

class ExampleWorld(World):
    option_definitions = example_options
```

```

### Option Checking
Options are parsed by `Generate.py` before the worlds are created, and then the option classes are created shortly after
world instantiation. These are created as attributes on the MultiWorld and can be accessed with
`self.multiworld.my_option_name[self.player]`. This is the option class, which supports direct comparison methods to
relevant objects (like comparing a Toggle class to a `bool`). If you need to access the option result directly, this is
the option class's `value` attribute. For our example above we can do a simple check:
```python
if self.multiworld.starting_sword[self.player]:
    do_some_things()
```

or if I need a boolean object, such as in my slot_data I can access it as:
```python
start_with_sword = bool(self.multiworld.starting_sword[self.player].value)
```

## Generic Option Classes
These options are generically available to every game automatically, but can be overridden for slightly different

> behavior, if desired. See `worlds.soe.options.py` for an example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
behavior, if desired. See `worlds/soe/Options.py` for an example.
```

### Accessibility

> Sets rules for availability of locations for the player. Items is for all items available but not necessarily all

Reviewer: since it is a "keyword", wrapping Items in \`\` is probably easier on the eyes.
```suggestion
Sets rules for availability of locations for the player. `Items` is for all items available but not necessarily all
```

### NonLocalItems
Forces the players' items outside their world.

### StartInventory
Allows the player to define a dictionary of starting items with item name and quantity.

### StartHints
Gives the player starting hints for where the items defined here are.

### StartLocationHints
Gives the player starting hints for the items on locations defined here.

### ExcludeLocations
Marks locations given here as `LocationProgressType.Excluded` so that progression items can't be placed on them.

### PriorityLocations
Marks locations given here as `LocationProgressType.Priority` forcing progression items on them.

### ItemLinks
Allows users to share their item pool with other players. Currently item links are per game. A link of one game between
two players will combine their items in the link into a single item, which then gets replaced with `World.create_filler()`.

## Basic Option Classes
### Toggle
The example above. This simply has 0 and 1 as its available results with 0 (false) being the default value. Cannot be
compared to strings but can be directly compared to True and False.

### DefaultOnToggle
Like toggle but 1 (true) is the default value.

### Choice

> A numeric option allowing you to define different sub options. Values are stored as integers but you can also do
> comparison methods with the class and strings so if you have an `option_early_sword` this can be compared with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A numeric option allowing you to define different sub options. Values are stored as integers, but you can also do
comparison methods with the class and strings, so if you have an `option_early_sword`, this can be compared with:
```

```python
if self.multiworld.sword_availability[self.player] == "early_sword":
    do_early_sword_things()
```

or:
```python

> from .options import SwordAvailability
> if self.multiworld.sword_availability[self.player] == SwordAvailability.option_early_sword:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
from .Options import SwordAvailability

if self.multiworld.sword_availability[self.player] == SwordAvailability.option_early_sword:
```

so will either need to be validated by adding a validation step to the option
class or within world, if necessary. Value for this class is `Union[str, int]`
so if you need the value at a specified point,
`self.multiworld.my_option[self.player].current_key` will always return a string.

### PlandoBosses
An option specifically built for handling boss rando, if your game can use it.
Is a subclass of TextChoice so supports everything it does, as long as having
multiple validation steps to automatically support boss plando from the users.
If using this class, you must define `bosses`, a set of valid boss names, and
`locations`, a set of valid boss location names, and `def can_place_boss`, which
passes a boss and location, allowing you to check if that placement is valid for
your game. When this function is called, `bosses`, `locations`, and the passed
strings will all be lowercase. There is also a `duplicate_bosses` attribute
allowing you to define if a boss can be placed multiple times in your world.
False by default, and will reject duplicate boss names from the user. For an
example of using this class refer to `worlds.alttp.options.py`

> ### OptionDict

Reviewer 3: I'd love to see information on how to set a schema here as well. Factorio's world definition has some good examples.

# Archipelago Options API

This document covers some of the generic options available using Archipelago's
options handling system.

For more information on where these options go in your world please refer to:

>  - [world api.md](https://github.com/ArchipelagoMW/Archipelago/blob/main/docs/world%20api.md)

Reviewer 3: In another PR, you have relative markdown links (e.g. `/docs/world%20api.md` in #1192), but here it's the absolute path. If we're revamping docs, we should probably make sure they're all relative imports.

would like to have available in your game, you need to create a new option class
with a docstring detailing what the option will do to your user, a `display_name`
to be displayed on the webhost, and a dictionary of `option_definitions` of
internal names to class. By style and convention, the internal names should be
snake_case. If the option supports having multiple sub_options such as Choice
options, these can be defined with `option_my_sub_option`, where the preceding
`option_` is required and stripped for users, so will show as `my_sub_option` in
yaml files and if `auto_display_name` is True `My Sub Option` on the webhost.
All options support `random` as a generic option that will choose from any of the
available options and is reserved by AP. You can set this as your default value
but you cannot define your own new `option_random`.

### Option Creation
If I want to create an option that will let the user decide if they want to start
with a sword, for instance, I must do the following:

```python
class StartSword(Toggle):
    """Adds a sword to your starting inventory."""
    display_name = "Start With Sword"

options = {

>     "starting_sword": StartSword

Reviewer: i want to say that `"starting_sword": StartingSword` would be nicer

}
```

This will create a `Toggle` option, internally called `starting_sword`. To then
submit this to the multiworld I can add it to my world's `__init__.py` as such:

```python
from worlds.AutoWorld import World

> from worlds.example.options import options

Reviewer: i would suggest using relative imports inside the world

class ExampleWorld(World):
    option_definitions = options
```

### Option Checking

> Options are parse by `Generate.py` before the worlds are created, and then the

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Options are parsed by `Generate.py` before the worlds are created, and then the
```

needs to be done by world for this to be different from locations access.

### ProgressionBalancing
Algorithm for moving progression items into earlier spheres to make the gameplay
experience a bit smoother. Can be overridden if you want a different default value.

### LocalItems
Forces the players' items local to their world.

### NonLocalItems
Forces the players' items outside their world.

### StartInventory
Allows the player to define a dictionary of starting items with item name and
quantity.

### StartHints
Gives the player starting hints for where the items defined here are.

### StartLocationHints
Gives the player starting hints for the items on locations defined here.

### ExcludeLocations
Marks locations given here as `LocationProgressType.Excluded` so that progression
items can't be placed on them.

### PriorityLocations
Marks locations given here as `LocationProgressType.Priority` forcing progression
items on them.

### ItemLinks
Allows users to share their item pool with other players. Currently item links
are per game. A link of one game between two players will combine their items
in the link into a single item, which then gets replaced with `World.create_filler()`.

> 

Reviewer 3: Until further notice with Early Items, we should probably add that here as well since it's currently in core.

Author: For this specifically I was waiting to see what ends up happening with that. Since this is a source only doc I have no issue with doing this after the next release.

## Basic Option Classes
### Toggle
The example above. This simply has 0 and 1 as its available results with 0
(false) being the default value. Cannot be compared to strings but can be
directly compared to True and False.

### DefaultOnToggle
Like toggle but 1 (true) is the default value.

### Choice
A numeric option allowing you to define different sub options. Values are stored
as integers but you can also do comparison methods with the class and strings so
if you have an `option_early_sword` this can be compared with:
```python
if self.multiworld.sword_availability[self.player] == "early_sword":
    do_early_sword_things()
```

or:
```python

> from world.example.options import SwordAvailability

Reviewer: as above, i would use relative imports

multiple validation steps to automatically support boss plando from the users.
If using this class, you must define `bosses`, a set of valid boss names, and
`locations`, a set of valid boss location names, and `def can_place_boss`, which
passes a boss and location, allowing you to check if that placement is valid for
your game. When this function is called, `bosses`, `locations`, and the passed
strings will all be lowercase. There is also a `duplicate_bosses` attribute
allowing you to define if a boss can be placed multiple times in your world.
False by default, and will reject duplicate boss names from the user. For an
example of using this class refer to `worlds.alttp.options.py`

### OptionDict
This option allows you to build a dictionary in `default` if you wish, which
can be accessed with `self.multiworld.my_option[self.player].value`. Setting
the default here is recommended as it will output the dictionary to the template.

### ItemDict
Like OptionDict, except will verify that every key in the dictionary is a valid
name for an item for your world.

### OptionList
This option defines a List object as its value, where the user can add any number

> of names to the list. Can define a set if keys in `valid_keys` and a default

Reviewer 5: > set if keys

Reviewer 4: I would just say that whole sentence is unclear. I don't understand it.

# Archipelago Options API

This document covers some of the generic options available using Archipelago's
options handling system.

For more information on where these options go in your world please refer to:
 - [world api.md](/docs/world%20api.md)

Archipelago will be abbreviated as "AP" from now on.

## Option Definitions
Option parsing in AP is done using different Option classes. For each option you
would like to have available in your game, you need to create a new option class
with a docstring detailing what the option will do to your user, a `display_name`
to be displayed on the webhost, and a dictionary of `option_definitions` of

> internal names to class. By style and convention, the internal names should be

Author: `option_definitions` is the dictionary on the World and it's a dict of `[str, Option]` where the string is what gets displayed to the user in the yaml, and is also set as an attribute on the MultiWorld. Would honestly like a recommendation of how to rewrite that as I can't really think of a concise way to say it myself.

> Option parsing in AP is done using different Option classes. For each option you
> would like to have available in your game, you need to create a new option class
> with a docstring detailing what the option will do to your user, a `display_name`
> to be displayed on the webhost, and a dictionary of `option_definitions` of
> internal names to class. By style and convention, the internal names should be

Reviewer 2: Here's where my mind goes:
```suggestion
Option parsing in AP is done using different Option classes. For each option you
would like to have in your game, you need to create:
- A new option class with a docstring detailing what the option will do to your user
- A `display_name` to be displayed on the webhost.
- A new entry in the `option_definitions` dict for your World.
By style and convention, the internal names should be
```
Then discuss the dict elsewhere, maybe a little later in the document or as part of the example.

```python
from worlds.AutoWorld import World
from .options import options
class ExampleWorld(World):
    option_definitions = options
```

### Option Checking
Options are parsed by `Generate.py` before the worlds are created, and then the
option classes are created shortly after world instantiation. These are created
as attributes on the MultiWorld and can be accessed with
`self.multiworld.my_option_name[self.player]`. This is the option class, which
supports direct comparison methods to relevant objects. If you need to access
the option result directly, this is the option class's `value` attribute. For
our example above we can do a simple check:
```python
if self.multiworld.starting_sword[self.player]:
    do_some_things()
```

or if I need a boolean object, such as in my slot_data I can access it as:
```python
start_with_sword = bool(self.multiworld.starting_sword[self.player].value)
```

## Generic Option Classes
These options are generically available to every game automatically, but can
be overridden for slightly different behavior, if desired. See
`worlds.soe.options.py` for an example.

### Accessibility

> Sets rules for availability of locations for the player. Items is for all items
> available but not necessarily all locations, such as self-locking keys, but
> needs to be done by world for this to be different from locations access.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sets rules for availability of locations for the player. Values are `Locations`, `Items`,
and `Minimal`.
- `Locations` and `Items` produce identical results by default. Some game implementations
   (ALTTP and The Witness)
   have special rules written for `Items` accessibility that, for example, allow keys to
   be locked behind the doors that they open as long as other progress is not impeded. 
   Rules like these need to be manually created.
```

### ProgressionBalancing
Algorithm for moving progression items into earlier spheres to make the gameplay
experience a bit smoother. Can be overridden if you want a different default value.

### LocalItems
Forces the players' items local to their world.

### NonLocalItems
Forces the players' items outside their world.

### StartInventory
Allows the player to define a dictionary of starting items with item name and
quantity.

### StartHints
Gives the player starting hints for where the items defined here are.

### StartLocationHints
Gives the player starting hints for the items on locations defined here.

### ExcludeLocations
Marks locations given here as `LocationProgressType.Excluded` so that progression
items can't be placed on them.

### PriorityLocations

> Marks locations given here as `LocationProgressType.Priority` forcing progression

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Marks locations given here as `LocationProgressType.Priority`, forcing progression
```

items on them.

### ItemLinks

> Allows users to share their item pool with other players. Currently item links
> are per game. A link of one game between two players will combine their items
> in the link into a single item, which then gets replaced with `World.create_filler()`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Allows users to share their item pool with other players. Currently, item links
are per-game. A link of one game between two players will combine their items
in the link into a single item, which then gets replaced with `World.create_filler()`.
```
I don't understand this one, so I can't help rephrase it.

## Basic Option Classes
### Toggle
The example above. This simply has 0 and 1 as its available results with 0
(false) being the default value. Cannot be compared to strings but can be
directly compared to True and False.

### DefaultOnToggle

> Like toggle but 1 (true) is the default value.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like Toggle, but 1 (true) is the default value.
```

### Choice
A numeric option allowing you to define different sub options. Values are stored

> as integers but you can also do comparison methods with the class and strings so

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
as integers, but you can also compare the class with strings, so
```

> if you have an `option_early_sword` this can be compared with:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
if you have an `option_early_sword`, this can be compared with:
```

```python
if self.multiworld.sword_availability[self.player] == "early_sword":
    do_early_sword_things()
```

or:
```python
from .options import SwordAvailability
if self.multiworld.sword_availability[self.player] == SwordAvailability.option_early_sword:
    do_early_sword_things()
```

### Range

> A numeric option allowing a variety of integers including the endpoints. Has a
> default `range_start` of 0 and default `range_end` of 1. Allows for negative
> values as well. This will always be an integer and has no methods for string
> comparisons.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A numeric option allowing a variety of integers including the endpoints. Has a
default `range_start` of 0 and default `range_end` of 1. Allows for negative
values as well. This will always be an integer, and cannot be compared to a
string.
```

### SpecialRange
Like range but also allows you to define a dictionary of special names the user
can use to equate to a specific value. For example:
```python
special_range_names: {
    "normal": 20,
    "extreme": 99,
}
```

will let users use the names "normal" or "extreme" in their options selections,
but will still return those as integers to you. Useful if you want special
handling regarding those specified values.

## More Advanced Options
### FreeText
This is an option that allows the user to enter any possible string value. Can
only be compared with strings, and has no validation step, so if this needs
to be validated, you can either add a validation step to the option class or
within the world.

### TextChoice

> Like choice allows you to predetermine options and has all of the same comparison

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like Choice, allows you to predetermine options and has all of the same comparison
```

> methods and handling. Also accepts any user defined string as a valid option,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
methods and handling. Also accepts any user-defined string as a valid option,
```

so will either need to be validated by adding a validation step to the option
class or within world, if necessary. Value for this class is `Union[str, int]`
so if you need the value at a specified point,
`self.multiworld.my_option[self.player].current_key` will always return a string.

### PlandoBosses
An option specifically built for handling boss rando, if your game can use it.

> Is a subclass of TextChoice so supports everything it does, as long as having

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Is a subclass of TextChoice so supports everything it does, as well as having
```
?

multiple validation steps to automatically support boss plando from the users.
If using this class, you must define `bosses`, a set of valid boss names, and
`locations`, a set of valid boss location names, and `def can_place_boss`, which
passes a boss and location, allowing you to check if that placement is valid for
your game. When this function is called, `bosses`, `locations`, and the passed
strings will all be lowercase. There is also a `duplicate_bosses` attribute
allowing you to define if a boss can be placed multiple times in your world.
False by default, and will reject duplicate boss names from the user. For an

> example of using this class refer to `worlds.alttp.options.py`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
example of using this class, refer to `worlds.alttp.options.py`
```

### OptionDict
This option returns a dictionary. Setting a default here is recommended as it
will output the dictionary to the template. If you set a [Schema](https://pypi.org/project/schema/) on the class with
`schema = Schema()`, then the options system will automatically validate the user supplied data against the schema to
ensure it's in the correct format.

### ItemDict

> Like OptionDict, except will verify that every key in the dictionary is a valid

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like OptionDict, except this will verify that every key in the dictionary is a valid
```

name for an item for your world.

### OptionList
This option defines a List, where the user can add any number of strings to said
list, allowing duplicate values. You can define a set of keys in `valid_keys`,
and a default list if you want certain options to be available without editing

> for this. `valid_keys_casefold` to true will make the verification

Reviewer 6: should this not be "Set `valid_keys_casefold` to true"?

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for this. If `valid_keys_casefold` is true, the verification will be
```

> case-insensitive, `verify_item_name` will check that each value is a valid item
> name, and`verify_location_name` will check that each value is a valid location name.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
case-insensitive; `verify_item_name` will check that each value is a valid item
name; and`verify_location_name` will check that each value is a valid location name.
```
Probably better off as a bulleted list, but semicolons break this up more cleanly than colons do.
